---
title: Testing

---
Cool 
Workloads
Azure Backup enables data protection for various workloads (on-premises and cloud). It's a secure and reliable built-in data protection mechanism in Azure. It can seamlessly scale its protection across multiple workloads without any management overhead for you. There are multiple automation channels as well to enable this (via PowerShell, CLI, Azure Resource Manager templates, and REST APIs.)
Scalable, durable, and secure storage - Azure Backup uses reliable Blob storage with in-built security and high availability features. You can choose LRS, GRS, or RA-GRS storages for your backup data.
Native workload integration - Azure Backup provides native integration with Azure Workloads (VMs, SAP HANA, SQL in Azure VMs and even Azure Files) without requiring you to manage automation or infrastructure to deploy agents, write new scripts or provision storage.
Data plane
Automated storage management – Azure Backup automates provisioning and managing storage accounts for the backup data to ensure it scales as the backup data grows.
Malicious delete protection – Protect against any accidental and malicious attempts for deleting your backups via soft delete of backups. The deleted backup data is stored for 14 days free of charge and allows it to be recovered from this state.
Secure encrypted backups- Azure Backup ensures your backup data is stored in a secure manner, leveraging built-in security capabilities of the Azure platform like Azure RBAC and Encryption.
Backup data lifecycle management - Azure Backup automatically cleans up older backup data to comply with the retention policies. You can also tier your data from operational storage to vault storage.
Management plane
Access control – Vaults (Recovery Services and Backup vaults) provide the management capabilities and are accessible via the Azure portal, Backup Center, Vault dashboards, SDK, CLI, and even REST APIs. It's also an Azure RBAC boundary, providing you the option to restrict access to backups only to authorized Backup Admins.
Policy management – Azure Backup Policies within each vault define when the backups should be triggered and how long they need to be retained. You can also manage these policies and apply them across multiple items.
Monitoring and Reporting – Azure Backup integrates with Log Analytics and provides the ability to see reports via Workbooks as well.
Snapshot management – Azure Backup takes snapshots for some Azure native workloads (VMs and Azure Files), manages these snapshots and allows fast restores from them. This option drastically reduces the time to recover your data to the original storage.

Security considerations
To help you protect your backup data and meet the security needs of your business, Azure Backup provides confidentiality, integrity, and availability assurances against deliberate attacks and abuse of your valuable data and systems. Consider the following security guidelines for your Azure Backup solution:
Authentication and authorization
Azure role-based access control (Azure RBAC) enables fine-grained access management, segregation of duties within your team and granting only the amount of access to users necessary to perform their jobs. Learn more here.
Azure Backup provides three built-in roles to control backup management operations: Backup contributors, operators, and readers. Learn more here.
Azure Backup has several security controls built into the service to prevent, detect, and respond to security vulnerabilities (Learn more)
Storage accounts used by Recovery Services vaults are isolated and can't be accessed by users for any malicious purposes. The access is only allowed through Azure Backup management operations, such as restore.
Encryption of data in transit and at rest
Encryption protects your data and helps you to meet your organizational security and compliance commitments.
Within Azure, data in transit between Azure storage and the vault is protected by HTTPS. This data remains within the Azure network.
Backup data is automatically encrypted using Microsoft-managed keys. Alternatively, you can use your own keys, also known as customer managed keys.
Azure Backup supports backup and restore of Azure VMs that have their OS/data disks encrypted with Azure Disk Encryption (ADE). Learn more here.

